Embeddings, in the context of natural language processing (NLP), refer to a representation of text that can be processed by machine learning models. These 
representations capture semantic meanings and relationships between words or phrases so that similar terms have closer embeddries while dissimilar ones are further 
apart. This allows algorithms to better understand human languages, which is essential for tasks like translation, sentiment analysis, topic modeling, etc.

Embeddings are typically created using neural network architectures such as Word2Vec, GloVe (Global Vectors), or BERT-like models that consider the context in which 
words appear to create these representations. Embedding techniques can also be applied at a document level where entire texts get vectorized into embeddings for tasks 
like text classification and clustering.

Now let's talk about RAG, Retrieval Augmented Generation: It is an advanced approach that combines the strength of large language models (LLM) with knowledge 
retrieval techniques to produce better-contextualised responses while dealing specifically with few-shot or zero-shot learning scenarios where limited examples are 
available.

RAG works by first identifying a relevant context in which information was previously learned and then uses that specific piece of information as input alongside 
prompts from the current task when generating an answer, effectively retrieving knowledge related to both tasks simultaneously for better performance on complex NLP 
problems such as question answering or conversation generation. 

The general process is:
1. Contextualize a new text by selecting context and identifying relevant pieces of information within it using external databases like Wikipedia or other 
domain-specific documents. This step can also include retrieving the most similar past examples for few shot learning scenarios, where only very limited data are 
available on which to learn from; similarly as with zero shot cases, we rely solely upon general world knowledge and reasoning skills of AI models instead of having a 
large dataset at our disposal.
2. Combine retrieved information in the context (step 1) along with task-specific prompts into one input that can guide LLM to provide better responses or generate 
more relevant text based on both past data and current requirements using techniques like transfer learning, where we fine-tune a large pretrained model's weights for 
specific tasks.
3. Generate the output by feeding in this combined information (step 1+2) into an LLM via prompt engineering or any other method used to generate text with these 
models and then post-process if necessary, such as using regular expressions to simplify language outputs like removing special characters etc., making sure that our 
response is clear, concise, grammatically correct.

As for the advantages of RAG over conventional LLM techniques: 1) It enables knowledge retrieval from external sources which helps in generating more specific and 
factual responses when dealing with new or rare topics; 2) it can perform well on few shot/zero-shot learning scenarios, where a large amount of data is unavailable 
for training.


real    1m31.772s
user    0m0.045s
sys     0m0.171s